docs: add BLADE definition and rename Skills to Benchmark Analysis (#1755)
NVIDIA-NeMo/Gym: fern/versions/latest/pages/evaluation-tutorials/blade-analysis-skill.mdx

position: 3
---

BLADE (**B**enchmark **L**evel **A**nalysis and **D**iagnostics **E**ngine) is NeMo Gym's built-in benchmark analysis skill. It turns raw rollout artifacts into evidence-backed benchmark reports and answers the question: **why did the score change?**

> Given two or more scored runs, BLADE identifies which tasks failed, what the dominant failure modes are, and what intervention — harness work, training, verifier repair, prompt change — is most likely to close the gap. It works with any benchmark that produces NeMo Gym rollout JSONL.

Reviewer: **Sentence length:** This sentence is 36 words. Split it:

```suggestion
Given two or more scored runs, BLADE identifies which tasks failed and what the dominant failure modes are. It also maps the most likely intervention — harness work, training, verifier repair, prompt change — to close the gap. It works with any benchmark that produces NeMo Gym rollout JSONL.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion.
